
For example, to search for everything except abc, search for:
!abc

To show the basic search syntax in Everything:
In "Everything", from the Help menu, click Search syntax.

How do I use wildcards?

Using a * in your search will match any number of any type of character.
For example, here is how to search for files and folders that start with e and end with g: e*g
Using a ? in your search will match one character.
For example, here is how to search for files that have a 2 letter file extension: *.??

How do I include spaces in my search?

To include spaces in your search enclose your search in double quotes.
For example, here is how to search for foo<space>bar: "foo bar"

How do I search for a file type?

To search for a file type, type the file extension into the search edit,
eg: to search for the mp3 file type, type *.mp3 into the search edit.
To search for more than one type of file type use a | to separate file types,
eg: *.bmp|*.jpg will search for files with the extension bmp or jpg.

How do I search for files and folders in a specific location?

To search for files and folders in a specific location include a \ in your search string.
For example, here is how to search for all your mp3s in a downloads folder: downloads\ .mp3
You could alternately enable Match Path in the Search menu and include the location in your search string.
For example, here is how to search for all your avis in a downloads folder with Match Path enabled: downloads .avi

Advanced searching

See Searching Everything for more information.



Troubleshooting

Search doesn't find what I want

Please make sure the following search options are unchecked:
In Everything, from the Search menu:
Uncheck Match Case.
Uncheck Match Whole Word.
Uncheck Match Path.
Uncheck Match Diacritics.
Uncheck Enable Regex.

Please make sure the Everything filter is selected:
In Everything, from the Search menu:
Check Everything.

Settings are not saved

Please make sure Store settings and data in %APPDATA%\Everything is enabled.

To enable Store settings and data in %APPDATA%\Everything:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the General tab.
Check Store settings and data in %APPDATA%\Everything.
Click OK.

Duplicated results

NTFS volumes are automatically indexed by "Everything".
Adding a NTFS volume as a folder index will show duplicated results.

Please remove any NTFS volumes from the folder index:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the Folders tab.
Select any NTFS volumes and click Remove.
Click OK.

To check which NTFS volumes are automatically included:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the NTFS tab.
NTFS volumes that have Include in database checked are included in the NTFS index.

The result list is empty or contains only drives

Please make sure the "Everything" service is running or "Everything" is running as administrator.

To install the "Everything" service:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the General tab.
Check Everything Service:
Click OK.

-or-

To run Everything as administrator:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the General tab.
Check Run as administrator:
Click OK.

Make sure you have at least one local NTFS volume.
Please see How do I convert a volume to NTFS.

To manually enable all local NTFS volumes for indexing:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the NTFS tab.
For each volume in the Local NTFS volumes list:
Check Include in database.
Check Enable USN Journal logging.
Check Monitor changes.
Click OK.

Force Everything to rebuild its database:
In Everything, from the Tools menu, click Options.
Click the Indexes tab.
Click Force Rebuild.
Click OK.